---------
Overview.
---------

collective.carousel is the package that lets you add "carousels" of items in
your Plone site. More than one carousels on one page are supported.

collective.carousel is based on `Scrollable`__ plugin for `JQuery Tools
library`__.

  .. |---| unicode:: U+2014  .. em dash
  .. __: http://flowplayer.org/tools/scrollable.html
  .. __: http://flowplayer.org/tools/index.html

How to get a carousel?
======================

Work of carousel is based on one assumption |---| you already have a
collection that returns results for showing in the carousel.
    
Carousel can be added in 2 ways:

    * as a viewlet above page's title (content carousel);
    * as a portlet to any portlet manager in your site.
    
Carousel above page's title (Content carousel).
-----------------------------------------------

    * Go to ``Edit`` tab on a page where you want to add a carousel;
    * go to ``Settings``;
    * add a collection that will provide content for carousel to ``Carousel
      object`` field;
    * if you want to add more than one carousel, add more collections to the
      same field;
    * after saving your page, you should see the carousel(s) above your page's
      title if the collection(s) you chose for the carousel(s) returns any
      elements.

Carousel in a portlet.
----------------------

    * On a page where you want to add a carousel click ``Manage portlets`` in
      one of the columns of your site;
    * choose ``Carousel portlet`` from ``Add portlet...`` menu;
    * collection portlet is a derivative from standard collection portlet in
      Plone, hence the same fields are available for this type of portlets as
      well;
    * fill out the fields in the form specifying a collection that will
      provide content for the carousel portlet.
    
**NOTE** content carousels are not inheritable while carousel portlet is
inheritable as any other portlet in a Plone site. This means that when you add
a content carousel to a folder, the same carousel will not be shown on any
object within that folder. At the same time if you add a carousel portlet on a
folder, that portlet will be shown for all objects within the folder that
don't explicitly block parent portlets.

Tips
====

What if I want to move carousel to another place?
-------------------------------------------------
Content carousel is defined with a regular viewlet. This lets you to move that
viewlet to any place in your site the same way you would do with any other
viewlet. Read `Moving a viewlet from a viewlet manager to another one`__ for
more info on how to move viewlets from one viewlet manager to another.

  .. __: http://plone.org/documentation/tutorial/customizing-main-template-viewlets/moving-a-viewlet/
  
How do I customize carousel's view?
-----------------------------------
collective.carousel provides a flexible way of customizing the look of items,
shown in a carousel based on a content type of the item. collective.carousel
comes with 2 bundled views that are available for items, rendered in a
carousel:

  * `browser/templates/news_item_tile.pt` |---| defines how News Items should
    be rendered in a carousel;
  * `browser/templates/default_tile.pt` |---| how all the rest content types
    should be rendered in a carousel.

If you need to either override one of the existing views or define a new view
for any content type you can do this from your package using ZCML
registartion. Please take a look at `browser/configure.zcml` and
`testing.zcml` for examples of such registrations. Note that there are pages
with 2 different names:

  * `carousel-view` |---| defines a view for a content type in content
    carousel;
  * `carousel-portlet-view` |---| the view for a content type when shown in a
    carousel portlet.

So if you need to override/register a view for any specific content type for
content carousel, your `<browser:page />` has to have `carousel-view` name. In
case you want to override/register a view for carousel portlet, name should be
`carousel-portlet-view`.

I need do something once the carousel is fully loaded.
------------------------------------------------------
The simplest use-case |---| you have some content carousels placed in a row
side by side. Most probably your carousels have different heights and that
doesn't look nice when they are placed side by side. So you want to equalize
the heights of these carousels with Javascript so that your carousels have the
same height. Since collective.carousel already binds ``load()`` event to each
carousel (resizing the carousel to fit all of it's content) you can not bind
one more ``load()`` event to a carousel because due to the nature of
``load()`` event it might be fired too early when not all content of a
carousel is loaded.

For the cases like this collective.carousel provides custom Javascript event
``resized.carousel`` that you can attach your special handlers to. Moreover
each carousel returns it's height that can be accessed in ``resized.carousel``
event.

Here is a simple code snippet of how to adjust the heights of carousels with
JQuery::

    $("#my-container .carousel").bind('resized.carousel', function(event, newheight) {
        $("#my-container .carousel").each(function() {
            if ($(this).height() < newheight) $(this).height(newheight); 
        });
    }); 
  

Developed by **Jarn AS** |---| http://www.jarn.com

Development sponsored by the **Bergen Public Library** |---|
http://www.nettbiblioteket.no


